# Interactive Art Responses
### Things to Do with Video Games 

#### 9/18/22 

  This excerpt from Bogost's book speaks to a trend in video games that I find endlessly fascinating. Having grown up with ample access to a range of games, I've spent a lot of time with games that equip the player/protagonist with the tools to assert themselves as the central motivating force of the game's world. In Bogost's words, a little kid in big shoes. I am now at a point where the process of making games is no longer a far-fetched, mystical concept. As such, I spend a lot of time thinking what kind of games I want to spend my time trying to develop. I know for a fact that I find very little interest in perpetuating the power fantasy.  
  
The potential immersive and narrative depth of video games is bottomless and remains largely untapped. When compared to the history of other mediums, even a relatively new example like film, it is clear that video games are still in their infancy. As technology becomes more widely accessible and the barrier to entry gets lower, new gamers and prospective game developers begin to crop up in environments that, even as recently as the mid 2010's, would've shown no interest in a medium dominated by hyper masculine shoot-em-ups and high definition sports simulations. With this comes an inevitable reclamation of the gaming landscape in favor of a more diverse set of genres and identities being shared. This renewed culture is already being consistently reinforced by the independent gaming scenes of sites like Itch.io and Steam.  

To speak more specifically on games that simulate powerlessness, I think it is important to note how narrative and thematic concepts do not necessarily need to be "gamified" in order to translate well to the new medium. What I mean to say is that while there is some merit to a simple 1 to 1 reflection of preexisting gaming trends (a "shooter" where you play as an innocent civilian in a war zone trying to escape from soldiers), this idea does not go far enough. I think that there is so much to be said for games that ignore the typical setting of games- war zones, urban crime playgrounds, sports stadiums- in favor of offering unique perspectives and gameplay that haven't already been beat to death by the Triple A scene. Examples like Unpacking, Papers Please, Disco Elysium, Death Stranding come to mind as games that explore player input and roleplaying through entirely unique interfaces, each ultimately exploring elements of the human condition in an organic way that had a big impact on me, while still providing me with a completely original experience that I couldn’t easily compare to anything else.
